# Facial Recognition Technology, Privacy Concern or Valuable Law Enforcement Tool?
In this document, I go into detail on the opposing viewpoints on Facial Recognition technology. Claims have been made on how this could be a potential privacy concern, while a counterargument has risen on how facial recognition can be a powerful tracking tool for law enforcement to ease catching wanted criminals, missing people, and suspected terrorists.

## Article 1: Cons Around Facial Recognition
In Forbes' [The Major Concerns Around Facial Recognition](https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicolemartin1/2019/09/25/the-major-concerns-around-facial-recognition-technology/?sh=6e8fa2274fe3), it is discussed that although facial recognition may have a few benefits, the lack of federal regulation and accuracy of the technology is a greater concern amongst the population. More especially, there are rising concerns on the use of this technology for law enforcement purposes. Personally, after reading this article, although I understand that privacy and security issues may arise when using facial recognition technolgy, the use of this can be a powerful tool in advancing many security issues that have long been going on. For example, as the article mentions, the usage of facial recognition in airports can be a great advancement in preventing any type of terrorist attack to take place. The article mentions how facial recognition uses a database of photos, such as mugshots and driver's license photos for identification, and I believe that, even though many may find this concerning for various reasons, it is a great advancement in the solving and prevention of crimes.

The article mentions many citizens worry about the accuracy of the technology and the biases and misinformation that may arise from them. I believe that, just like any other technological advancement that have taken place in the past, this will also be one that requires time and a series of trial and error in order to get the most accurate information. Every advancement we have made has required some trial and error in order to reach its best form. Citizens are worried about misidentifications that may lead to wrongful convictions, but this problem is not something new facial recognition may in the future even diminish this problem because, as the technology gets revolutionized, there can be a more precise level of accuracy. 

## Article 2: Pros Around Facial Recognition
Conversely, Security Informed argues on how criticism of facial recognition technology is mostly based on the lack of information and regulation around the technology in [The Many Faces Of Today's Facial Recognition Technology](https://www.securityinformed.com/insights/faces-today-facial-recognition-technology-co-7121-ga.1546968388.html). I agree with this article in how, although some people can use this powerful tool for wrong reasons, it can also be used to do many good. Many revolutionary tools have been used for best and for worst, therefore I don't believe facial recognition should be criticized as much as it is because many of the things we use can and have been used with bad intentions. So, penalizing this amazing technology would be doing us a disservice, as it would mean taking a step back from a technological revolution. This article mentions for lack of information and regulation around the technology is what bring rise to such critisism. I agree with this article's counter to this concern as it mentions that using this technology proportionately and responsibly it can generate a big amount of good. 

Just like everything else, moderation is key. As mentioned in the article, the ability this technology has to increase security is amazing. All the possibilities that this opens, from airport secuity to helping those batteling addiction, is a greater good that we should take advantage of. This article mentions a great array of uses for facial recognition that I believe are revolutionary for safety in our community. For example, the article mentions how using this technology can play a significant role in allowing more informed stop & search interventions, which is a great advancement for crime investigations. By using this, police and detectives can conduct faster research and the process of elimination on possible subjects can be done more efficiently and effectively. This article mentions how bias is not really a problem because this technology doesn't use prior personal engagement when looking for face recognition, it only uses data leaving aside prejudices. This technology can be a great aid for police to bring context when making decisions on what actions they should take. This article talks about great ideas on how to use facial recognition to solve many problems we encounter. I believe that using this technology results in more benefits than loses. Just like they mentioned with gambling, having a way to identify those registered as gabmbling addicts will make it easier to help prevent them from falling back to their addiction. This technology helps catch things that the human eye is not capable of. This article shows great promise to what facial recognition can become and helps explain more in depth the actual benefits of the technology, which has gotten a negative reputation due to lack of understanding and regulation. 